we're going to make the classic sauce
hollandaise for the basic recipe you
need three egg yolks you need about 200
grams of melted clarified butter now
clarified just means that the butters
been melted and it's been skimmed of the
froth that comes to the top and it's
been separated the fats from the milky
solids and all you're going to use is
the fats and I've made a vinegar
reduction and a vinegar reduction it's
just finisher which has been boiled down
and with some shallot and some
peppercorns and that's been reduced by
half to increase the acidity and that's
been strained we've got a pan of barely
simmering water and we're just going to
sit a bowl over the pan and we take our
three egg yolks and some of the vinegar
reduction now if you weren't going to
use a vinegar reduction you would need
to add a splash of water to the egg
yolks to stop them cooking straight away
so we want about a couple of tablespoons
and what we're doing here is we're
cooking the egg yolks without actually
scrambling them what we want to do is
want to take this to a stage which is
called ribbon stage and ribbon stage is
when the egg yolks are cooked but
they're not scrambled so whisking
constantly the whisk is leaving a trail
to stop this from splitting which is
what happens normally just what happens
when it goes wrong you want to add the
butter very gradually just start with
just a little bit of butter and
incorporate that into our egg yolks
[Applause]
making sure each addition is completely
incorporated before adding the next just
going to add a splash of liquid to this
because it's starting to come a bit too
thick textures looking beautiful
Spooner ball now we can start adding a
lot more butter at once depending on how
thick or how thin you want the sauce add
more butter and more liquid so if you're
serving this as a spoonful on top of a
piece of fish we'd want it quite thick
whether if you were spoon
over a poached egg he wants it slightly
runny I see just add a bit more liquid
to it and then the rest of her butter
here we go and that is our hollandaise
I'm finishing it with a squeeze of lemon
juice which Luther thin it down a bit so
there is our classic hollandaise sauce
there is another method which I'm about
to show you which is a cheats method
what you don't get with this method is
you don't get the same amount of volume
because there's not all the whisking
involved but it is very easy to make and
it takes all the arm work out of it so
same ingredients I'm going to be using a
hand blender and a jug what you need to
make sure is you use the jug that comes
with the hand blender the jug needs to
beat all the same ingredients three egg
yolks it's important that the egg yolks
go in first a splash of our reduction
then our butter now for this method it's
important that the butter and that the
egg yolks are of the same temperature
both of the I just lukewarm butter just
goes in with the egg yolks you need to
hold your hand blender on the bottom of
the jug that's about 20 seconds and then
gradually draw it up so
[Applause]
and draw a hand blender up and down and
there next to no time you have delicious
hollandaise to turn this into a
Bearnaise sauce which is a classic sauce
which is served with steak I'm just
going to put some tarragon through this
Bernays is wonderful at stake if you're
serving this with lamb you can chop some
mint put some mint through it rather
than finishing it with lemon juice you
could finish it with juice of a blood
orange basil would be delicious in this
as well so you're just going to stir our
tarragon through the sauce serve that
next to our hollandaise and then a
cheats Bernays made with a hand blender